# EK210
Our goal was to design a device that tests a biometric response in order to win a game of two truths and a lie. The biometric response should be one that can be actively controlled, we chose breath rate, so that the desired response can be triggered in order to win the game. The results are then indicated using an RGB LED and the degree of certainty is demonstrated as the percentage on the LCD screen. In order to accomplish the desired outcome of the project we trialed with biometrics such as breath rate and heart rate where we found that breath rate was far easier for the player to control. We were able to measure breath rate using a conductive band attached to a adjustable strap and then attaching two alligator clips to the conductive rubber. We then developed a code that measured the resistance of the conductive band when someone was breathing deep and rapidly compared to at a normal pace. Using this code we were able to calculate the percentage of certainty, display whether the user was lying or telling the truth and have RGB LED flash red or green depending on the results. 

# Lie Detector Operation Manual

User Operation Manual
This manual provides the necessary step-by-step instructions for a fully functional device.
Follow each section carefully and in order.

Product Overview
The purpose of this lie detector is to train a “designated liar” to win a game of two truths and a lie by measuring the user’s breath rate and having the liar know when to trigger the sensor. Below is the necessary parts, how to set them up, the initial testing and the “designated liar” coaching. After carefully following each step, the product should be instantly ready for use.

Necessary Parts and Set Up
In order to use the lie detector there are necessary components that are key to the device. An Arduino Uno, 9-volt battery, 9-volt battery clip connector, RGB LED, 4.7K ohm resistor, conductive rubber cord, on/off switch alligator clips, male to male jumper wires and an adjustable nylon webbing strap. It is crucial that everything is sautered together with heat shrink around any exposed wiring. This is not only a safety hazard but can also lead to device malfunctions. If there are any exposed wires, do not use the product.

File Download Procedure
Using the link below, the code provided can be downloaded and uploaded to the Arduino IDE app. The code may need to be initially altered upon testing depending on how the conductive band was tied. Once testing is completed, the code will no longer have to be altered, as long as the conductive band is not retied, due to the fact that the nylon strap is adjustable. 

Initial Testing
After downloading the code, ensure that the strap is fastened relatively tight and that each of the alligator clips are attached to different segments (one on top, one on bottom) of the rubber conductive band. Also ensure that the on-off switch is switched to off when initially fitting the conductive band. To begin testing switch the machine on and have the user breathe deeply and rapidly. The LCD screen should display “Lie” with a percentage as the degree of certainty and the RGB LED should be red. Next, have the user breathe at their normal pace, the LCD should display “Truth” and the RGB should be green. If after performing both of these tests, the results displayed are the results desired, the coaching may begin. If after performing both of these tests, the results are not as previously mentioned, you will need to alter the code. Simply re-open the code and find line 10 (float TruthROC = .5;). With the Serial Monitor open, have the user breath normally and find a baseline breathing rate of change (the rate of change when the user is telling the truth). Change the “.5” to the observed value.  This line is responsible for the breathing rate of change. Take about five minutes to trial different numbers in place of the .5 and repeat the two tests from earlier until the desired results are obtained.

“Designated Liar” Coaching
It is important to note that more often than not, lie detectors lack reliability. The purpose of this specific lie detector is to win a game of two truths and a lie, this would not be possible without the proper training of the subject. Once the “designated liar” is chosen, the coaching can begin. The initial testing should work on anyone due to the nylon strap being adjustable, but for safe measure repeat the two tests in the Initial Testing section. When the user is asked a question that they want to answer truthfully, they must breathe normally at a regular pace. When the user is asked a question that they want to answer falsely, the the user must breathe heavy, deep and a faster pace. Repeat this process, while checking the results on the LCD screen and the color of the RGB LED, until the results are consistently accurate. Having the user alter their breath rate dependent on which statements they want true and which statement they want as a lie directly triggers the sensor. 
